# glioblastoma
stochastic simulation for clonal growth of glioblastoma

Here, two cell dynamics models were compared: Lan et al.'s stem cell hierarchy model and quiescent cell dynamics model. While the current stem cell dynamics model lack the presence of quiescent cell, which was observed in glioblastoma experimentally, we proposed a new hypothetical model with the dynamics of quiescent cell. Therefore, stochastic simulation algorithm (SSA) was generated for both models (StemCellHierarchyModel.py and QuiescentCellDynamicsModel.py), the result of which will be compared. Inside both StemCellHierarchyModel.py and QuiescentCellDynamicsModel.py, there are two functions: clonalGrowth and passageClonalGrowth. While the clonalGrowth only record the cell number for each type of cell at harvest time point, the passageClonalGrowth record this for each discrete time point. Hence, clonalGrowth is preferred when compared with the experimental data regarding to time consumption, while passageClonalGrowth is preferred when compared between synthetic data.

For the purpose of simulation and visualisation of the clonal growth predicted by either model, this could be achieved via ClonalGrowthAcrossTime.py. This includes functions for simulating clonal growth and visualising the growth of cell number, the change in cell composition, the distribution of clone sizes and the first incomplete mement of clone sizes. 

As to infer the parameters in either model, ParameterInference.py should be used. This imports SSA for the cell dynamics model (StemCellHierarchyModel.py or QuiescentCellDynamicsModel.py) and functions for serial transplantation and multiple clonal growth (SerialTransplantation.py), binning of clone sizes (Binning.py) and measuring distance between the result of SSA and the synthetic or experimental data (Distance.py). Then the parameter inference is performed by approximate Bayesian computation (ABC).

As for my research project, I firstly measured the cell composition at steady status using MeasureCellCompositionAtSteadyStatus.py. This determines the cell composition when simulating multiple clonal growth. We then reproduced Lan et al.'s simulated result using ClonalGrowthAcrossTime.py, which indeed generated a similar negative binomial distribution of clone sizes as to Lan et al.'s. Next, we tested the parameter inference ability of ABC with synthetic data and experimental data using ParameterInference.py, which could also be used to infer the parameters in the new model.
